<<<<<<< HEAD
Cordova SDK for HTML5 
==============================================================

Apache Cordova is an application development platform that allows you to use common web technologies, primarily HTML5, JavaScript, and CSS, to create applications for mobile devices. Cordova uses a standard set of APIs to access common device features. Additional plugins allow you to access QNX CAR specific APIs so that you can extend your application to integrate with the automotive services provided by the QNX CAR platform. 

This SDK provides the command line packaging utilities and core Apache Cordova components required to create HTML apps that can be deployed on targets that are running the QNX SDK for Apps and Media 1.0 and or on QNX CAR 2.1 reference images. 

Supported Software Development Host Platforms
---------------------------------------------

The Cordova SDK for HTML5 is supported on the following host platforms

-   Windows XP (32-bit) 
-   Windows 7 (32-bit and 64-bit)
-   Ubuntu Linux 12.04.LTS (32-bit and 64-bit)
-   Redhat Enterprise Linux 6 (32-bit and 64-bit)

Installation Instructions
-------------------------

-  If you do not currently have node.js (0.99 or higher) installed, please follow these instructions:
   
   For Ubuntu Linux 12.04.LTS run the following command:
       #  sudo apt-get install nodejs

   For Redhat Enterprise Linux 6 run the following command as the root user (e.g. run "su - " before executing the command): 
       #  yum install nodejs

   For Windows XP or 7: 
       - Download the node.js installer from http://nodejs.org/
       - Run the installer to install node.js

- The packaging tools included with the Cordova SDK must be added to your system path. To manually add the tool directory to your path please follow these instructions:

   For Ubuntu Linux 12.04.LTS or Redhat Enterprise Linux 6 run the following commands in a command line shell:    
        # cd <location where you extracted the Cordova SDK files>
        # cd html5sdk
        # export PATH=`pwd`/tools/packaging/linux/bin:$PATH

   For Windows XP or 7:
        C:\>cd <location where you extracted the Cordova SDK files>
        C:\ ...\html5sdk>cd htmlsdk
        C:\ .... >set PATH=%CD%\tools\packaging\win32\bin;%PATH%


NOTE: In Linux distributions, this will temporarily modify your path until you close the console session. To modify your path permanently, add the following command to export your path to your bash profile, located at  ~/.profile 

export PATH=<location where you extracted the Cordova SDK files>/tools/packaging/linux/bin:$PATH



Creating your project
-------------------------

To create a new project, you use the `create` command to set up the folder structure for your app.

1.  On the command line, navigate to the folder where you extracted the Cordova SDK. 
2.  Run the `create` command using the following syntax:
        bin/create <path-to-project> <project-package> <project-name>

This command creates the folder structure for your project at the specified location. All of your project resource files should be stored in the *<path-to-project>*/www folder, or in a subfolder within it.
- '<path-to-project>' specifies the directory you want the project created in
- '<project-package>' specifies a reverse domain style identifier
- '<project-name>' specifies the apps display name

*Note*: the create command bootstraps dependency installation through the 'npm install' command. Depending on installation directory and system permissions, this may require admin privileges.
If a problem is encountered on Linux, run 'sudo npm install' before using the create command. On Windows, run 'npm install' in a command line utility opened with admin privileges.

Building your app
-----------------

To build your app, type the following command:
        <path-to-project>/cordova/build debug

Deploying your app
----------------

To deploy your app, you first need to transfer the bar file generated by the build process to the target. 

One way to do this is to copy the file onto a USB stick. The USB stick will be available on the target as /fs/usb0.

Once the file is available on the target, you will need to run the bar-install script to install the application.

        # bar-install /path/to/your-bar-file.bar

Your application is now installed.


Running your app
--------------

(Dublin)

TBD


(QNX CAR)

Your application should now show up in the App Section, which is the last tab on the bottom right of the screen. You can now scroll through the application list to find your application. Tap the application icon once to start it. 

Adding and managing plugins
---------------------------

To add additional functionality that is outside of the core features of Cordova, you'll need to add plugins. A plugin represents a set of APIs that provide access to additional features of the platform.

In order to use a plugin, you must first add it into your project. Once added into your project, the plugin will be bundled with your project during the build process, to ensure that your app has access to all the APIs it needs.

To add and manage plugins you can use the plugman tool. It is available via npm (ie npm install -g plugman)

###Add a plugin

To add a plugin, on the command line, type the following command:

        plugman install --platform blackberry10 --project . --plugin <id|path|url> [--variable NAME=name]

TBD - add info on how to use the CAR plugins that we are providing with the SDK

###Remove a plugin

To remove a plugin, on the command line, type the following command:

        plugman uninstall --platform blackberry10 --project . --plugin <id>

###View a list of installed plugins

To view a list of installed plugins, on the command line, type the following command:

        plugman ls